IOMesh monitor review (#187)
iomesh/docs: docs/monitor-iomesh/monitoring-iomesh.md

---
id: monitoring-iomesh
title: Monitoring IOMesh 
sidebar_label: Monitoring IOMesh 
---

After successfully importing Grafana, you will see the dashboard shown below. Refer to [Grafana Docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/) to do more configurations and adjustments.

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102718816/228129444-c656ab7f-9a1c-4c58-ba6d-9dcfa7846b7a.png)

Author: @cospotato 帮忙截一个？

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102718816/228129444-c656ab7f-9a1c-4c58-ba6d-9dcfa7846b7a.png)

Reviewer: <img width="1920" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7987906/229396752-5a443b9d-6c53-4fd3-a4b5-4fe96d0b23e0.png">

IOMesh provide 5 rows of contents for monitoring IOMesh storage: 

- Overview
- Node
- Details of Node
- Physical Disk
- Persistent Volume

### Overview 
Shows IOMesh cluster information and resource usage. 

> |Field|Description|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Panel|Description|
```

Reviewer 2: Grafana 对这些面板的官方称呼是 Panel

Author: 这里具体指某一个字段， field 好一些?

Reviewer 3: 这里感觉还是 panel，对应的是一块一块的内容，和下面的表格里一列一列的字段还不太一样

Author: 好的

|Total Usage|Shows the percentage of used capacity to total capacity of the IOMesh cluster.|
|Data Migrate & Recovery|Shows the amount of data to be migrated and migration speed, or the amount of all data to be recovered and recovery speed.|
|Cluster IOPS|Shows the minimum, maximum and latest values of read, write and total IOPS for the IOMesh cluster in a given time period, respectively.|
|Cluster Average Latency|Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write, and total average latency for the IOMesh cluster in a given time period, respectively.|
|Cluster I/O Average Block Size|Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write, and total average block size for the IOMesh cluster in a given time period, respectively.|
|Cluster I/O Bandwidth|Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write, and total bandwidth for the IOMesh cluster in a given time period, respectively.|

### Node
Shows the basic information of each node in the IOMesh cluster.

| Field | Description | Example |
|------|------|--------|
| Name          | The node name. | "node-1" |
| Namespace     | The namespace where the node is located. | "iomesh-system" |

> | Health Status | Shows the node health status, including:<p>Initializing</p><p>Healthy</p><p>Error</p><p>Disconnected</p> | "Healthy"|

Reviewer 2: 这里的格式不太对，在线文档里没有以 bullet list 形式展现

Reviewer 2: 或者用灰色底色块标注也行

> |Capacity | The total capacity of the node.| "2 TiB" |

Reviewer 3: Capacity 和 space usage 和 tower 上的不一致，另外这里表示的是存储容量，用 storage capacity 和 storage capacity usage 是不是更合适？

Author: @yixin-chen-23 yixin 看看这里哈

Reviewer 2: 这里 Grafana 展示也一并调整了 @nanana-w

| Space Usage | The space usage of the node. | "20%"    |
| Dirty Cache   | The dirty data space of the node.| "5 GiB"|
| Cache Hit     | Node read cache hit ratio * read ratio + write cache hit ratio * write ratio.   | "70%" |
| Overall IOPS  |The total IOPS of the node.  | "500 io/s" |
| Avg Latency   | The average read and write latency of the node. | "1 us"   |
| Migrate       | The data migration speed for the node.  | "1000 B/s"|
| Recovery      | The data recovery speed for the node.| "1000 B/s"|

### Details of Node
Shows data migration, recovery, and performance data of a specific node in the IOMesh cluster.

| Field | Description  | Example    |
|---|------|------------|
| Pending Migrate             | The amount of data to be migrated on the node.                           | "50.0 MiB" |
| Pending Recover             | The amount of data to be recovered on the node.                          | "50.0 MiB" |

> | Failure Cache               | The amount of unavailable cache space on the node.                       | "50.0 MiB" |

Reviewer 3: failure xx，tower 上是 invalid xx，failure data —> failure storage capacity?

Reviewer 2: 调整了 http://jira.smartx.com/browse/IOMESH-172

| Failure Data                | The amount of unavailable data space on the node.                        | "50.0 MiB" |

> | Node IOPS                   | Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read write IOPS in a given time period.  | /          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Node IOPS                   | Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write IOPS in a given time period.  | /          |
```

> | Node Average Latency        | Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read write average latency in a given time period. |     /       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Node Average Latency        | Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write average latency in a given time period. |     /       |
```

> |Node I/O Average Block Size| Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read write average block size in a given time period.|/|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Node I/O Average Block Size| Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write average block size in a given time period.|/|
```

Author: 为啥这里会单独加一个逗号，其它的没有呀？之前是 read，write 表示这两个单独展示，一起就不加逗号，read write 这样

> | Node I/O Bandwidth|Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read write bandwidth in a given time period.|/|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Node I/O Bandwidth|Shows the minimum, maximum, and latest values of read, write bandwidth in a given time period.|/|
```

### Physical Disk
Shows disk attribute information, health and usage status, and purpose of use. 

| Field              | Description      | Example        |
|--------------------|------------------|----------------|
| Device Name        | The physical disk name. | "dev/sdv"      |
| Health Status      | Shows the health status of the physical disk, including ` Healthy`, `Unhealthy`, `Failing`, and `S.M.A.R.T not passed`.    | "Healthy"      |

> | Usage Status       | Shows if the usage status of the physical disk, including `Unmounted`, `Partially mounted`, `Mounted`, `Staging`, and `Migrating`. | "Mounted"      |

Reviewer 2: 这里后续可能还要根据实际实现改一下

Author: 嗯到时候圈我一下

| Remaining Lifetime | Shows the remaining life of the cache disk. A higher percentage (%) value indicates a longer remaining life.               | "99%"          |
| Type               | Shows the disk type, including `SSD` and `HDD`.       | "HDD"          |
| Model              | Shows disk attribute information, which may contain brand information.                                                     | "DL2400MM0159" |
| Serial Number      | The serial number of the physical disk.                                                                                    | "WBM3C4TE"     |

> | Use                | Shows the purpose of the physical disk, including `Datastore`, `Cache with journal`, and `Datastore with journal`. | "Cache"        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Use                | Shows the purpose of the physical disk, including `Datastore`, `Cache with journal`, and `Datastore with journal`. | "Datastore"        |
```

Author: fixed

| Capacity | The total capacity of the physical disk. | "500 GiB"      |

> | Hostname| The name of the node where the disk is located. | "node-1"       |

Author: @yixin-chen-23 得看看现在的实现是啥？

> | Hostname| The name of the node where the disk is located. | "node-1"       |

Reviewer 3: 现在的实现是 hostname， @yixin-chen-23  可以看看要不要调整

> | Hostname| The name of the node where the disk is located. | "node-1"       |

Reviewer 2: http://jira.smartx.com/browse/IOMESH-172

### Persistent Volume
Shows PV attribute information, status, and usage in the IOMesh cluster.

| Field|Description| Example|
|---|------|-----|
| Name | The PV name. | "Volume-1"            |
| StorageClass       | The StorageClass name corresponding to this PV. | "StorageClass1"       |

> | Status | Shows the PV status, including: <p>Available: This PV is available for use but is not bound to any PVC. </p> <p>Bound: This PV is already bound to a PVC.</p><p>Released: All bound PVCs have been deleted but resources have been not recycled by the cluster.</p> <p>Failed: Failed to automatically recycle this PV.<p> Pending: This PV is already created but but needs to wait for CSI to create the entity storage resource. |"Available"|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Status | Shows the PV status, including: <p>Available: This PV is available for use but is not bound to any PVC. </p> <p>Bound: This PV is already bound to a PVC.</p><p>Released: The PVC this PV bound to has been deleted but resources have not been recycled by the cluster.</p> <p>Failed: Failed to automatically recycle this PV.<p> Pending: This PV is already created but but needs to wait for CSI to create the entity storage resource. |"Available"|
```
这一部分在线文档看格式也不太对

> | Status | Shows the PV status, including: <p>Available: This PV is available for use but is not bound to any PVC. </p> <p>Bound: This PV is already bound to a PVC.</p><p>Released: All bound PVCs have been deleted but resources have been not recycled by the cluster.</p> <p>Failed: Failed to automatically recycle this PV.<p> Pending: This PV is already created but but needs to wait for CSI to create the entity storage resource. |"Available"|

Reviewer 3: pending 这句话 多了一个 but

Author: 好的 fixed
